
Assessment - Python for Data Science Level 1

             Note: Work on at least three from the four given

1. Title: Merging csv files from movie lens dataset

Background information: The movies data set provides a solid foundation to Data
Science learners for doing data analysis. This data file can be downloaded from
the famous movie lens webpage (given in the link below). The three files are
movies.csv, users.csv and ratings.csv. The users.csv contains information about
the user’s gender, age and preference. The movies data set contains information
about the movie name and genre. The ratings.csv file contains information on
the ratings given by the users

Purpose of the case study: The purpose of this exercise is to understand how to
do a meaningful merge twice – first, merge two data files and then merge the
resulting file with a third data file

Problem description: Do a merge of all the three files movies.csv, users.csv
and ratings.csv in an appropriate way as one csv file namely
movies_integrated.csv by using a common column id present in each data file

Dataset:  https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/

Download and unzip your data files: Use the following files, movies.dat,
users.dat and ratings.dat, copy the .dat files as .csv files

2. Title:  Comparison of movie ratings given by Ladies and Gentlemen

Background information: The movies data set is downloaded in the previous case
study. If you consider the ratings given for a product or food ordered in a
restaurant or for movies the ratings vary depending upon the independent
variables like gender, age and place. The ratings also vary for the same
product in different stores or web sites. In this case study we consider the
ratings given by users for movies and check if there are any rating differences

Purpose: The purpose of this exercise is to find out if there is any difference
in movie ratings between gentlemen and ladies after looking through all the
nearly 1 million ratings available in the dataset

Problem description: We have created the new merged movies_integrated.csv from
the previous case study. Use that merged file to find if there is any
difference in the way ladies and gentlemen rate the movies. If there is a
difference in rating between genders, then show it in your data analysis and
also through data visualization

Dataset:  https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/


3. Title:  Data analysis of onion retail prices from Govt of India data home page
 
Background information: Onion retail prices dataset is released by Govt of
India in its data home page  https://data.gov.in/  It has near 1,27,500 samples
of data with each day’s onion retail price. The prices range from Rs 2 to Rs
100 and prices are provided from 1997 to 2015. It has date, city name,
commodity name and price as the columns. We need to download the dataset and do
basic analysis on data, and find if there is any correlation in the prices

Purpose: The purpose of this exercise is to perform a first level of data
analysis using correlation function in pandas and also find the places maximum
and minimum  onion prices occurred. 

Problem statement: The onion_prices.csv file is attached here. Find the unique
names of cities where maximum prices have occurred. Also find the if there is
any correlation between change in the onion price of one city to the onion
price in any other city, use the retail onion price given in the link below

Onion retail dataset link : 
https://data.gov.in/resources/daily-retail-price-onion-upto-april-2015


4. Title:  Data analysis and classification done on the USA university admission data 

Background information: Every year many thousands of international students get
admitted to universities in the United States. We would like to analyse the GRE
and GPA scores needed to get admitted to such universities. We have a very
popular dataset (which is attached at the end of this document) called
university admission dataset. This dataset has GRE score, GPA score, University
Prestige and Selection – YES – NO as columns. It will be useful to build a
model to predict if a given student will get admission in the university of his
choice

Purpose: The purpose of this exercise is to perform a first level of data
analysis for the university admission of international students in the United
States and to classify selection of those students as “YES” or “NO” 

Problem statement: Please find the attached university_admission.csv file here.
Perform simple data analysis and visualization using pandas and sea born
libraries. Display using a histogram, bar chart and box plot - details of
students selected based on GPA, GRE and prestige of the institution. Show the
analysis and visualizations using pandas.groupby and pandas.crosstab functions.
Build a prediction model using logistic regression algorithm to predict if the
applicant will get admission or not

Dataset: Attached here in this case study document

